IDL> gome2l1b, "GOME_xxx_1B-file"

     Show how to read data from a GOME-2 L1b file



The GOME2 spectral data in the GOME2 L1b product is stored inside MDRs. 
There are separate MDRs for Earthshine, Calibration, Sun, and Moon
measurements. In addition there are also 'Dummy Records' (DMDR) that can be
present when there is lost data in the product.

Each MDR roughly contains a single scan. However, an MDR does not exactly
correspond 1-to-1 with a GOME-2 scan. This is an important fact to be aware
of. The real situation is as follows:

Within a single scan (a scan takes 6 seconds) there are 16 Instrument Source
Packets (covering 375ms each) coming from the satellite. Each ISP contains at
most two readouts (there are two if the integration time for a band is 187.5ms
(or 93.75ms)). The problem is that the two readouts of the first ISP of a scan
contain the last measurement of the previous scan and the first measurement of
the new scan. The second ISP contains data for measurements #2 and #3, the
third for #4 and #5, etc. The last measurement of a scan will again be found
in the first ISP of the next scan. Instead of shifting the data and grouping
all data of a single scan together in a single MDR the Level 1a and Level 1b
processors just place the MDR boundary at the start of the first ISP of a scan
and terminate the MDR at the end of ISP 16. This means that in Level 1b (but
also 1a) products the first measurement in an MDR will always be the last
measurement of the previous scan.

Nearly all meta-data for a readout (time, geolocation, viewing/solar angles,
etc.) in an MDR are filled taking into account this same shift. This means
that for retrieving the geolocation of the first readout of an MDR from the
GEO_EARTH_ACTUAL record, one will in fact get the geolocation information of
the last backscan pixel of the previous scan. However, the integration time
meta-data for the first readout in an MDR is not shifted this way (the
GEO_EARTH information is also not shifted, by the way, and just contains the
32 geolocation pixels for the scan). As long as the integration time does not
change from one scan to another this won't impact anything, but the L1
products will contain invalid metadata for the first MDR readout if there is a
change of integration time between two consecutive scans. In that case the
calculated geolocation, angles, etc. of the first readout are values based on
the integration time of the _new_ scan instead of the _old_ scan (e.g. the
ground pixel will thus either be too large or too small). The (relative) good
news to this is that, if a change in integration time occurs, the last pixel
readout of the final scan with the 'old' integration time will never be valid
and will have undefined values in the product (this is because the instrument
prematurely terminates the final readout if a scan configuration change
occurs). This means that the readout that has the 'invalid' meta-data will
never be a valid measurement anyway.
